We often have the need to set out a building
and make sure that when we do set it out that it is square.
Tiles and kitchens and everything like that
based on the principle
that the building is going to be square.
To get it square we will use a method called 3-4-5
and now I am going to give you a demonstration
of how to set up a 3-4-5 triangle.
So what I have done here is first of all put a peg in
at the desired point.
And then I have come along and measured the second point
4 metres along and put a second peg in.
From there I have run a string line
along that 4 metre line.
Ok, we've got a line here of 4 metres and
now we need to make a line out this way 3 metres
and at the same time we want to make another
line along the hypotenuse from that point
out 5 metres and join the two together.
So we got 3 metres.
Ok, so we come along 3 metres
and come off the other point 5 metres.
If we line those up that'll be exactly a right angle triangle.
Now I'll extend the string along the 3 metre line.
Tie it off.
Ok, so what we've got is one side that is 4 metres long
we've got the other side that is 3 metres long and another
that is 5 metres long.
If we wanted to check our triangle is square
we can come on over and use a builders square and see
it actually is.
So placing it down aligning a side, we can
see that the other side is square as well.